# Chapter 1346 Impoverished Nation, Destitute People

The Ministry of Commerce considered it again and again. Apart from the Red Barbarian Cannons that they craved the most, probably only armor could truly move Huang Taiji to give an arm and a leg.

Notes from the Ming people stated that the iron smithies of the Later Jin outside Shenyang City stretched for miles, all manufacturing armor and weapons for the army. The armor had to undergo arrow shooting tests; as long as it was penetrated, the craftsman who made it would be killed. Although the Senators were skeptical about whether this had universal significance, it was a fact that the Later Jin had very strict requirements for weapon manufacturing quality.

Obviously, although the industrial system controlled by the Senate was primitive by modern or even modern standards, it had incomparable quality and cost advantages in the 17th century. It was not a problem to manufacture armor that was more protective, lighter, and cheaper than the Manchu armor.

Broadly speaking, the armor that the Senate prepared to export was a kind of plate armor made by stamping technology, with movable joints. This kind of armor could be made in ancient society, but limited by material performance and processing methods, it required skilled craftsmen to spend a lot of man-hours to manufacture, so the cost was high and the scope of equipment was limited.

The Senate's industrial system had advantages in both materials and production. Continuous stamping technology could manufacture standardized armor pieces of various parts in batches, and then with simple manual assembly, finished products could be manufactured in large quantities. Moreover, the improvement of steel quality made the armor pieces themselves not need to be too heavy and thick, making the armor lighter. And the protective performance was better than all kinds of armor currently equipped by both the Ming and Qing sides.

Arms trade has been a lucrative black-hearted business since ancient times. The Senate had always wanted to be an arms dealer in the 17th century. Initially, they considered exporting a cannon factory to Li Luoyou, but later it was strangled under the questioning of "not improperly exporting productivity and technology" by some people in the Senate. So arms exports were limited to finished products, and they must be finished products with a generation gap.

Standard spears, machetes, half-body plate armor, and Nanyang-style caplock smoothbore muskets were all products under this guiding ideology. As for smoothbore cannons, there was currently a big controversy, and they had not been listed in the exportable directory for the time being.

Originally, the Senate attempted to use Li Luoyou as a white glove, but long-term observation led the Foreign Intelligence Bureau to this conclusion: although this person did smuggling business with the Manchus and earned a lot of conscienceless money, he was absolutely unwilling to do such things as selling arms.

Everyone has their own feelings and bottom lines. Li Luoyou was probably that kind of person. Although his smuggling of goods for the Manchus was essentially aiding the enemy, he must have something to console himself with, otherwise it would be difficult to face his own "conscience".

Li Luoyou's non-cooperation forced the Senate to send Huang Hua to go into battle personally.

Huang Hua's mission was extremely dangerous, so dangerous that many Senators questioned whether he could come back if he went, and whether it was necessary to send a Senator to take such a big risk for trade with the Later Jin. However, Huang Hua himself repeatedly stated at the hearing that this was his personal wish, and he was willing to take this risk, even if it cost his life.

"Furthermore, even when two countries are at war, they don't kill envoys. I'm a merchant bringing goods they urgently need. Why would they kill me?" Huang Hua was full of confidence.

Having said that, the Foreign Intelligence Bureau was still very worried about his first mission. The Foreign Intelligence Bureau had considered letting him simply lead a business group to Shenyang in the guise of a "merchant". However, considering that most Manchu officials in the Later Jin came from humble backgrounds, prided themselves on ferocity and barbarity, and because their past lives were too bitter, everyone was extremely greedy. Historically, when the Crown Prince of Joseon was a hostage in Shenyang, he was constantly extorted by Manchu officials and their bondservants, making the Li Dynasty suffer unspeakably. Every time the Manchu mission and business group went to Joseon for mutual trade, their behavior on the way was no different from bandits, so that the Li Dynasty had to exempt the taxes of the five cities of Anju along the road as compensation for the local officials and people—if not for Huang Taiji, a ruler with considerable foresight who exercised some restraint, they would really do anything without a bottom line.

Even if high-level Manchu officials like Huang Taiji could realize Huang Hua's importance, the possibility of crude middle and lower-level officials and nobles coveting wealth and rashly killing and robbing the business group existed. Therefore, it was finally decided to adopt the "public-to-public" model for trade, rather than directly sending a business group over.

Since the New Year, Huang Taiji had remained in Shengjing to handle government affairs. He didn't go hunting—hunting for the Manchu regime was not just a pastime for the upper class, or the more grandiose "training soldiers", but also an important national economic income. The large amount of meat and fur obtained in the hunt was indispensable to the Later Jin.

He was born in 1592 and was in his middle age at this time. Although he had begun to gain weight, he was physically strong, vigorous in energy, red-faced, and his eyes were full of spirit. His career was entering a stage of prosperity and development.

When Huang Taiji inherited the throne, the Later Jin regime had actually fallen into recession. Economically, it mainly relied on looting, engaging in slavery manors on a large scale which reversed history, coupled with the severe cold of the Little Ice Age, causing agricultural production to plummet. Internal strife among the upper class was serious, and the middle and lower classes were dissatisfied because it was difficult to obtain satisfactory distribution of spoils. Even the armored soldiers who died in battle only got a few blood-stained clothes stripped from dead people as compensation. Their combat effectiveness also began to decline, not to mention that the internal conflict between Manchus and Han Chinese had intensified unprecedentedly under the rule of the Old Wild Boar Skin (Nurhaci). Even the die-hard traitors like Li Yongfang and Fan Wencheng who surrendered to the Qing early were almost executed, and Han officials were all in danger.

If it weren't for Huang Taiji, who was almost like a bug (in a game), inheriting the Khan position, the future of the Manchus in history books might just be a short-lived local regime.

After a few years of making great efforts to govern, he had saved the Later Jin regime from the brink of collapse. Although the situation of national poverty and people's destitution had not fundamentally improved, it was much better than the situation where they heavily relied on killing people to reduce the population to maintain food supply.

A few years ago, when he sent troops into the Shanhai Pass for the first time, he received rich returns. Not only did he obtain countless spoils and population, alleviating the shortage of national expenditure and the complaints of the Eight Banners soldiers, but he also figured out the details of the Southern Dynasty (Ming). The Great Ming was nothing more than this! The idea of "Restoring the Great Jin, watering horses at the Yellow River" entered his thoughts for the first time.

In the political strife among the upper echelons of the Later Jin, he successfully eliminated the power of heavyweight opponents such as Amin and Manggultai. Finally, in the first month of last year, strictly following the old system of sitting with the three major Beiles, he changed to sit alone facing south, while the other three major Beiles sat on the side. He truly became the supreme ruler.

At this moment, Huang Taiji was at the stage where his life began to step into glory. Therefore, whether in action or in conversation, he showed full confidence and ambition.

However, he still had many problems to face at present. Externally, although the essence of the Southern Dynasty being strong on the outside but weak on the inside had been seen through by him, a centipede dies but never falls down; it would take time to water horses at the Yellow River. To the east, although the Dongjiang Army was weak after fratricide, it was still by his bedside after all; Joseon was secretly communicating with the Southern Dynasty; in the west, Chahar Mongols had not been completely subdued.

Internally, the shortage of national expenditure was always a shadow he could not get rid of. Although the manor system was no longer engaged in on a large scale and the food production situation had improved somewhat, it was still difficult to grow more grain in the bitter cold land. Grain prices had always been very expensive. As the Khan of Heaven's Mandate, he could eat Liaoyang Green—a high-quality dry rice planted in the fields of various Tuokesuo (Imperial Manors) outside Shengjing City for every meal. As for ordinary princes and nobles, they could only enjoy it during festivals. As for the ordinary people further down, not to mention eating coarse grains, there were even those who ate barnyard grass as rice. For this reason, they had to spend a large amount of silver to buy grain from Shanxi merchants, the price being more than ten times that inside the Pass. The gold, silver, and treasures looted from inside the Pass flowed into the hands of Shanxi merchants at a rapid speed.

Besides grain, almost all daily necessities in the country were in short supply, and prices of everything soared. Even the most basic food for the people like salt and sauce could hardly be guaranteed supply: the Jurchens did not know how to make salt. After the supply from inside the Pass was cut off, they relied entirely on Korean merchants for transportation and sales. The price was extraordinarily expensive, and it was often out of stock. So much so that being able to eat salt and sauce made one an upper-class person.

If national expenditure could not be resolved and people's livelihood was difficult, his great ambition would be just an illusion in the water. Huang Taiji had been troubled by this recently.

Looting inside the Pass again was a good method, but the current situation was unstable. In addition to external aggression, although Manggultai had been stripped of the title of "Grand Beile" and demoted to the rank of Beiles, his family power was very strong, and there was always the danger of a comeback...

While he was meditating, a memorial from the Ministry of Revenue was delivered. He opened it and it was a report on various situations in the mutual trade with Joseon in Uiju this time. Mutual trade with Joseon was one of the most important economic sources for the Later Jin regime. Not only did many commodities of the Later Jin rely on Joseon for supply, but they also needed to trade with Mongolia through re-exporting Joseon commodities to obtain good horses from Mongolia. Therefore, Huang Taiji cared very much about every mutual trade with Joseon and investigated personally.

However, Joseon was very cold towards mutual trade with the Later Jin. On the one hand, the Li Dynasty always regarded the Great Ming as the orthodox, adhered to the distinction between Hua and Yi, and was unwilling to ally with the Later Jin; on the other hand, the Later Jin often regarded themselves as victors in mutual trade, bullying the weak everywhere, buying and selling by force. Buying low and selling high, and even wanting to "buy on credit". When trading with Joseon for the first time in 1629, a Korean merchant brought 3,000 shi of grain to sell. As a result, 2,000 shi were "gifted", and only 1,000 shi could be sold, so Korean merchants were unwilling to trade with them.

Huang Taiji certainly knew the various "actions" of his subordinate officials, but he turned a blind eye to this—the small court of the Later Jin was really too destitute, and could only rely on big fists to squeeze the soft persimmon which was Joseon.

A few days ago, the caravan he sent to Joseon just returned from Uiju. They brought 1,600 jin of ginseng, asking for 16 taels per jin, but Joseon only gave 9 taels, the price difference was 11,200 taels. This price was too far from his psychological expectation. He was still counting on these silvers to buy more goods back.

What made him even more unhappy was that the goods bought from Joseon were often of poor quality and short weight. One bolt of cotton cloth was cut short and sold as two or three bolts, and six or seven sheets were pulled out of a roll of paper. It was difficult to discover without careful inspection.

