# Chapter 2502: Burning the Tower (11)

Only the sound of a phlegeny cough was heard as a fat, dark-skinned man slowly walked to the front of the incense table. This man had a protruding belly, jowly cheeks, and a full beard. He was none other than Xue Tu, the Marshal of the Heaven Gate Daoist Spirit Society. Xue Tu was wearing a suit of cloth armor painted with gold and colorful designs. The cloth surface hung limply on his body. The rattan-bound, paper-pasted gold helmet was bright and light, making Xue Tu look somewhat comical.

Xu Tong secretly ridiculed him: *Is it really that hard to get a set of armor?* After the defeat and dispersal of the Guangdong government troops, armor and clothing were scattered all over the countryside, and many township braves and militias had equipped themselves. Later, during the public security rectification, thousands of sets of prohibited armor were confiscated from the township braves. Why bother wearing such a nondescript counterfeit?

He did not know that this "armor" was handed down by the patriarch of the sect, and only the sect leader could wear it. Because the Great Ming prohibited villagers and commoners from possessing armor and shields, in the early years, they could only be made of cloth and rattan.

Xue Tu tried hard to maintain a solemn and dignified manner, making everything appear awkward and discordant. He first made a circle bow to the crowd around him, then walked behind the chair, offered a stick of high incense to the shrine, performed kneel-and-bow obeisance, smoothed the two headbands beside the gold helmet to cover his ears, and then waddled to the round-backed armchair and sat down.

At this time, the minion chanted again, "Guests take your seats." With a rustling of clothes, everyone sat down again.

Xue Tu looked around, silently counting the rows. Guan He of Green Stone Stronghold, Song Dougian of the Buddha Fragrance Society, and Pockmarked Chen of the One Universe Primordial Chaos Dao. These three major societies and strongholds were all vassals and branches of the Heaven Gate Daoist Spirit Society, accounting for half of the participating major families. Before the meeting, they had already been secretly bought over, coerced, and recruited. Everything was discussed properly, and absolutely no mistakes would occur. The other three families were either timid or weak. As long as the six major sect leaders were settled, the remaining small leaders of small villages and households would have absolutely no power to resist. His purpose in gathering the alliance was to annex the various sect gates and coerce the villages under the guise of resisting the Kun, thereby dominating the shadowy roads of the Guangzhou area alone. He only needed to guard against someone forcing their way out to be the standout.

Xue Tu coughed and said, "I, Xue, am a rough man. Since childhood, I failed to study books and learn Confucianism, which is truly a regret of my life. Although I am a wild man of the countryside, having watched plays and listened to storytelling, listening to masters talk of ancient times, although I do not understand great principles, I do know loyalty and righteousness. That is why I took over this Heaven Gate Daoist Spirit Society from the old Marshal. Over the years, killing bandits, striking refugees, and expelling water pirates, experiencing more than ten battles, protecting the territory and comforting the people, I can be considered to have some meager merit. I intended to wait for the world to settle, then disarm and return to the countryside, regardless of doing business or farming, to support my family. Who would have expected that a few years ago, the Kun thieves would rampage, bringing disaster to the Guangzhou Prefecture, killing, burning, looting wealth and robbing people, doing all manner of evil. Today, brothers present here either have a blood feud with the Kun thieves or hatred for broken homes. You must feel this pain personally. I will not say more. Some time ago, Second Brother Yun introduced a high expert to me, known as Daoist Wooden Stone. The Daoist bears the Imperial Court's钧 order to recruit heroes from all directions. His fame is illustrious in Guangdong and Guangxi, and presumably many brothers present are familiar with him. Receiving the high regard of Daoist Wooden Stone and Second Brother Yun, they repeatedly invited me, Xue, to come out of the mountains. Lacking talent but unable to decline, I had to come out to preside over this situation. only before, each family acted on its own, and sooner or later would be defeated one by one by the Kun thieves. As the saying goes: a handful of thatch twisted into a rope, a bundle of firewood does not break. Only by brothers of each family working together, relying on each other, and unified under one command, can we defend the land, resist the Kun, and settle down and get on with our lives. I, Xue, not ashamed of my crudeness, offer these humble words for the brothers' elegant listening."

Pausing briefly, Xue Tu added, "Please welcome Daoist Wooden Stone."

Wooden Stone Daoist wore a purple sun Daoist cap, with two sword-tip ribbons hanging from the back of his head. He wore a green kudzu cloth Daoist robe and stepped on cloud-walking shoes. His right hand held a horsetail whisk, and three strands of wind-blown long beard hung over his chest. A gust of wind blew, causing his robe sleeves to dance and his ribbons to flutter. He truly had a solitary and clear elegance, a demeanor of an immortal. The Daoist drifted in slowly from the side. His bearing immediately drew gasps of wonder from the crowd below. Those familiar with him frequently raised their hands in respectful greeting from afar.

Wooden Stone Daoist stood still, first performed a Daoist greeting, and said in a clear voice, "This poor Daoist offers greetings. Today, having been not discarded by Marshal Xue and treated as an honored guest, meeting all you heroes at the alliance assembly is truly the fortune of three lifetimes. Today, the Kun thieves seem to point their sword wherever they wish, sweeping away everything, but in reality, they are already an arrow at the end of its flight; their momentum cannot penetrate Lu silk. They are just like the Japanese pirates knocking on the sea back then; sooner or later they will inevitably flee back to Australia and will certainly not govern the Yue lands for long. Governor Xiong fought the Kun thieves first at Zhaoqing, then at Lingyang Gorge, and again at Wuzhou. Governor Xiong relied on worthy generals and brave soldiers to resist step by step. The Kun thieves left corpses filling the fields and fought for a long time without success. They used treacherous spies and moved people with wealth and profit, enticing unrighteous unruly people to sell themselves and rebel, colluding with foreign enemies to act as internal spies. First they disrupted the army's morale themselves, followed by arson and tricking the city. I only hate that chaos has always come from within. Although Governor Xiong won all three battles and slaughtered over ten thousand Kun, he fell short of success and had to retreat and leave. This is not because the soldiers and generals were mediocre, but because the Kun thieves are especially cunning. He cannot be blamed for the warfare. Now Governor Xiong has established a foothold in Bagui (Guangxi), and his will to exterminate the Kun has never fallen. He gathers troops and accumulates grain, waiting for the opportunity to act. Morning and evening, he sleeps on spears awaiting the dawn, plotting recovery."

Speaking to this point, Wooden Stone Daoist transferred the whisk to his left hand, rested the tail on his right arm, lightly stroked his beard, and said, "Now Governor Xiong controls the right of the Ling (Guangxi) in the west, standing in a standoff with the Kun thieves from afar. He strengthens the walls and clears the fields, guards the passes and holds the strategic points, causing the Kun thieves to halt their troops at Wuzhou, unable to advance an inch. This poor Daoist observes that the Kun thieves act perversely and go against the tide, and public resentment is boiling. Given time, they will inevitably fall into chaos themselves. At that time, the Imperial Court's grand army will gather, combining wolf troops and border armies, marching out from Western Yue. We will respond, attacking from both inside and outside to punish the Kun thieves together. The great cause of exterminating the Kun will surely be achieved."

Speaking to this, Wooden Stone Daoist took out a roll of silk from his bosom, shook it open, and said, "Now the Imperial Court has already gathered an army of one hundred thousand. Any day now, they will descend west into Liangguang. In as little as three months, or at most half a year, grand armies will arrive in succession. The ugly kind of Kun thieves will certainly not be able to withstand the thunderous strike. They, high and low, will surely be turned into powder. The Civil Thief (Wen Desi) and Ma the Rebel (Ma Qianzhu) will either bind their hands and surrender to be presented as captives beneath the palace steps to sacrifice to the Imperial Ancestral Temple, or they will be publicly executed, their heads passed around Guangdong and Guangxi to warn the world. Currently, the civil and military officials of Liangguang, from the Generals-in-Chief and Governors down, are all controlled by Governor Xiong. Governor Xiong is reorganizing the military and martial arts, recruiting worthy and virtuous men far and wide, accumulating the momentum of wind and thunder to plan for action. Everyone, please look. This is Governor Xiong's handwritten order, fully commissioning this poor Daoist to recruit loyal and righteous heroes. If you all submit and serve, you will all become pillars of the Imperial Court. In the future, you may become garrison commanders or commanders. Conferring titles and worshipping nobility will happen at that time. Changing your fate and transforming your life is a rare opportunity in a hundred years. You must not mistake your own future. Marshal Xue is loyal and bold, his righteousness reaching to the clouds; he can be entrusted with great matters. Governor Xiong has already recommended Marshal Xue as a substantive guerrilla general. The decree will arrive within ten days. Thus, this place should honor Marshal Xue. This poor Daoist suggests that all families should discard past grievances and join hands with one heart. Seven Daoist sects unite into one, seven gates becoming one Dao, carrying forward the Daoist law and magnifying divine powers." After speaking, he put away the silk with a *snap* and tucked it into his sleeve.

Hearing Wooden Stone Daoist's words, the crowd could not help but whisper to each other. The backbone of the Daoist sect bandits was mostly local rascals and sticks, more than half of whom were illiterate and had little knowledge. Those who came to respond to the call this time mostly had old grudges against the Kun people, and many were die-hard anti-Kun individuals. Moreover, the feudal imperial power consciousness had always been deep-rooted, recognizing the Ming Dynasty as orthodox. Hearing the promise of official status, they were all somewhat moved. Seeing Wooden Stone Daoist take out the silk, everyone craned their necks and widened their eyes. But separated by a great distance, they stared until their eyes cramped without seeing a single word. They only vaguely saw a large seal at the bottom corner of the text. They couldn't see it clearly, nor could they distinguish its authenticity. Then hearing the call to unite the Daoist sects, discussion became even more rife, as if a ladle of cold water had been poured into a pot of hot oil, exploding with a *hiss*.

Although every one of them coveted wealth and worshiped imperial power, and Wooden Stone Daoist's few words had stirred them into a restless state, they could still distinguish between someone else's herd of cattle and their own single cow. In the end, being able to call oneself "Master" in the countryside relied entirely on this one-acre three-cents of land. If they were merged by others, wouldn't they end up empty-handed?

Just at this moment, a person at the head table sneered, "How exactly to unite? Isn't it just uniting under the name of your Daoist Spirit Society? Even a three-year-old child will cry and fuss if someone robs his porridge cake. You make it sound as if it's already decided, just notifying us. Good men have always accepted respect but not bullying. This matter of unification still needs to be debated."

Before his voice hit the ground, Xue Tu and Wooden Stone Daoist both looked at this person. They recognized him as Liao Yongcheng, the Daoist Head of the Red Sun Way. This Way was established separately by a senior disciple branch of the Heavenly Soldier Daoist Spirit Society in the early years. It had been passed down for three generations and had considerable momentum. Although it honored the Daoist Spirit Society as the master, it listened to transfers but not announcements (obeyed orders but maintained independence). It had always been discordant with Xue Tu, only they hadn't torn their faces. Liao Yongcheng did not shrink back; he met the gaze directly, staring provocatively at Xue Tu.

Xue Tu narrowed his eyes slightly and slowly stood up from the round-backed armchair. The black, hard fat on his face squeezed his eyes into a thin line. A ray of noon backlight hit Xue Tu's back, painting a pale silhouette around him. His dark physique was pulled by the sunlight, slowly shrouding Liao Yongcheng in a huge shadow.

The Golden Crow (sun) was blazing; the temperature was becoming increasingly hot and fierce.

The atmosphere in the venue also gradually stagnated. The sect leaders were very resistant to this "alliance," but awed by Xue Tu's intimidating power and the "tiger skin" behind him, no one dared to stick their head out. Now that Liao Yongcheng had come out to question it, although no one dared to echo him, the atmosphere in the field became subtle.

Wooden Stone Daoist closed his eyes slightly, putting on an air of "immortal wind and Daoist bones." He had anticipated this scene, and it was a good opportunity to weigh Xue Tu's worth. If he couldn't even handle this small scene, then there was no need for him to waste more thought here; he should find another plan as soon as possible.

Xue Tu walked slowly to Liao Yongcheng, a smile piling up on his face. He cupped his hands slightly and said, "Junior Brother, greetings. You and I come from the same sect. Since ancient times, the iron tree does not blossom, and brothers do not divide the family. Although Junior Brother has some roots, a single log is hard to support. Now the Kun people are busy expanding their territory and have no mind to manage you and me. When they have free hands, how will they allow us to disturb the locality like this? Where do our food and clothing come from? Don't we rely entirely on running militia training, sending out troops and horses to hunt for 'wild food'? But now the Kun people have dispatched many work teams escorted by large troops to stay in the villages and tun, winning over the people's hearts. Have you not noticed that the number of people withdrawing from the groups and rebelling against the Way is increasing daily? If we don't plan ahead for a rainy day, in the future, you and I will hardly have a place to stand. Since ancient times, there has only been one Liangshan; where can there be two water marshes? I still hope Junior Brother can be of one heart with brother Xue, joining forces into one. If I have offended Junior Brother in the past, I beg for your Magnanimity and forgiveness." After speaking, he bowed down.

**(End of Chapter)**
