# Chapter 2617: Family Affairs

"Mom, the world has changed now; the Australians are here. I heard that divorce is allowed under Australian rule. We can go find the Australians to uphold justice. You divorce him, draw a clear line with him. Whatever happens later, let it come at me." Guan Zongbao hardened his heart and said.

Hearing the word "divorce," Huang *Shi*'s mind went blank with a "boom." In her limited social experience, there had always been only men divorcing wives; she had never heard of women being able to "divorce husbands."

In the society at that time, "harmonious separation" (*Heli*) initiated by the woman was not nonexistent, but extremely rare. Mostly, it was when the husband didn't attend to proper duties or got into lawsuits, and the maiden family stood up for the daughter, forcing the man to divorce the wife. Although called "harmonious separation," formally it was still "casting out the wife."

Huang *Shi* came from a local small clan, and her maiden family was in straitened circumstances, so naturally, they couldn't stand up for her. Since childhood, her parents taught her "Three Obediences and Four Virtues." Several times she went back to her maiden home crying that she couldn't live the life anymore, her mother also persuaded her to endure, live well, and not let others see jokes.

Huang *Shi* muttered with a crying tone, "Sigh, I have long didn't want to live with him. Back then your grandpa betrothed me to him thinking his Guan clan was a local big clan with family business, so entering his house would mean less suffering. Thinking about it now, marrying anyone back then would be better than marrying him. My Mom, your Grandma, taught us sisters from childhood to follow the rooster if marrying a rooster, follow the dog if marrying a dog, and endure everything. Although he liked to revel in dissipations outside and associate with scoundrel friends, he was good to me in the early years. It was just after getting this strange disease that his temper became worse day by day. When you were little, he still endured the pain to raise fish fry..."

Hearing his mother mention things from childhood, a nameless fire rose in Guan Zongbao's heart. In his childhood memories, this so-called father was always drunk with his scoundrel friends when he was strong and healthy. He never had a time of father-son heart-to-heart talk with him, and even dallied with women outside, threatening to divorce his Mom several times. It was his Mom crying and teaching the young and ignorant him to go to Guan Youde to plead for mercy, asking him not to divorce her for the sake that he was still small, letting her raise the child to adulthood properly. Later, Guan Youde took medicine all year round and never produced any more offspring. Bystanders secretly said it was retribution.

Seeing Huang *Shi* hesitate, Guan Zongbao said, "Didn't he say many times that he wanted to divorce you long ago? Since he has the intention and you have the intention, this matter is half done. A twisted melon is not sweet!"

Huang *Shi* said, "If he were a healthy person, even if he divorced me, I would feel at ease. Look at his half-dead appearance now. If I leave him, leaving aside whether it can be done, bystanders seeing it won't know what ugly gossip to say. Your Grandpa and Uncle won't be able to hold their heads up to be humans in the future."

Guan Zongbao said, "Is his ghost-like appearance caused by us? It's all his own doing! Saying all day that he will die tomorrow, yet hitting the two of us today, his strength is quite great! He is so heartless and unjust; Mom, why do you still speak for him!"

"Bao'er, mom has been worthy of him in this life; it's him who owes us mother and son. The person Mom is most sorry to in this life is..." Huang *Shi* said and cried again, "It's you! Blame Mom for being incapable, failing to let you stay in the clan school to study for an official degree."

Guan Zongbao entered the clan school to study when he was young. The clan school teachers all said he was a good seedling for studying. At thirteen, he was recommended by the clan to participate in the Child Examination (*Tongzi Shi*). Who knew what nerve was wrong with Guan Youde, he actually made him drop out of school before the Child Examination to go home and learn a trade to support the family. Guan Zongbao felt he had grown up then and had the responsibility to shoulder the family burden, so he dropped out to go home and learn to raise fish fry. Due to family fields being pawned and sold successively for Guan Youde's medical treatment, later there were no fish fry to raise either. His Mom could raise silkworms and reel silk. Guan Zongbao then used Huang *Shi*'s only remaining savings and the silver he saved from raising fish fry to rent more than ten *mu* of mulberry garden. First, to supply their own silkworm raising needs; second, to sell some mulberry leaves externally to earn some money. In addition, he also rented a fish pond and engaged in mulberry dike fish ponds like local ordinary Gengzhongjia.

The joke played by God turned Guan Zongbao from a frail reading seed into a farmer working hard under the scorching sun, hands full of calluses. Originally thinking that as long as the family was harmonious, although life was hard, there would always be a day to tide over, but Guan Youde's behavior became more and more eccentric. Guan Youde originally loved drinking. After falling ill, he still held a medicine jar in his left hand and a wine bowl in his right. Not only that, in recent years, he also developed the habit of smoking with that gang of scoundrel friends. This made the already difficult family worse. Guan Zongbao and Huang *Shi* hated this to the bone, but Guan Youde kept claiming that tobacco was a wonderful medicinal material, and old Chinese doctors said the famous doctor Zhang Jiebin highly praised tobacco. He claimed the mother and son not letting him smoke was wanting him to enter the earth earlier.

Guan Youde occupied the moral high ground. Huang *Shi* and her son couldn't argue with him and could only endure, but what they got in exchange was intensified behavior. When Guan Zongbao was still studying, Guan Youde could still drag his sick body to work, still knowing that silver was not easy to earn and daring not to spend money lavishly. Since Guan Zongbao shouldered the family burden, bystanders praised Guan Youde for giving birth to a good son and said he should enjoy blessings after working hard for a lifetime. Guan Youde also felt he should enjoy it and began to float. Using physical discomfort as an excuse, he did no farm work anymore, not even touching capable things like cooking and laundry. Spending money became more and more whimsical. Don't know where he heard the principle, saying the biggest sorrow in life is that money hasn't been used up when the person dies.

Huang *Shi* worked day and night. After finishing silkworm work, she had to cook and serve it to him. Guan Youde was not only ungrateful but also often nitpicked—this wasn't tasty, that didn't suit his appetite. Later, Guan Zongbao heard from neighbors that as early as when he attended clan school, Guan Youde often beat and scolded Huang *Shi*, driving her into the pigsty and not letting her enter the house, only that Huang *Shi* never complained to him. Even so, Huang *Shi* still endured. Guan Zongbao didn't know how his Mom endured for so many years. Guan Zongbao secretly vowed that if he had a place to stand in the future, he would take his Mom to move out of that ghost place. That was why he built the broken thatched hut on the mulberry dike outside the village later.

"Mom, I don't blame you." Guan Zongbao said, "If blaming, blame this world."

Thinking that her precious son was once a young talent and reading seed, but now had hands full of calluses, and at fifteen or sixteen, precisely the age for discussing marriage, he couldn't even find a matchmaker now, and would be a bachelor for a lifetime if a few years later, Huang *Shi* couldn't help crying bitterly again, "Woo woo woo... He really never thought for us mother and son. He doesn't think, with his half-dead ghost appearance, even if he lived peacefully, no one would be willing to let their daughter marry into this family to suffer. He is good; not only does he not sympathize with his son, but he also acts like dying. Truly, the one eating shit comes to trouble the one shitting, woo woo woo..."

Seeing his Mom crying like a tearful person, Guan Zongbao asked painfully, "Mom, I just ask you one sentence, are you still willing to live with him? As long as you make up your mind, I will go to the Australians to uphold justice. I heard from people going to market that a team of Australian officials came to Jiujiang Great Market yesterday."

Huang *Shi* hesitated for a moment and said, "Australians aren't here every day. Even if they gave us justice, who would recognize this justice after Australians leave? The clan has its own clan rules. If I want to live separately from him, I must invite clan elders to discuss together. Also, regarding his food and clothing expenses, we must ask clan elders to set a rule. If it's like him now, demanding one tael of silver for causing trouble today, and two taels for causing trouble tomorrow, where will you get the capital for a wife?"

Guan Zongbao said, "Mom, you are really confused! You are surnamed Huang, not Guan. You married into the Guan family and suffered for so many years; has anyone in the Guan family said a word of justice for you? You still imply expecting someone among them to stand up and uphold justice? If you run away, who will serve this sick master? Could it be that someone is willing to take money from clan property to fill his bottomless pit? People are all counting on us mother and son to wipe his ass!"

Huang *Shi* hesitated, "We are just nameless small people. They say it's hard for an honest official to judge domestic affairs; how would Australian officials manage such trivial matters?"

"How do you know without trying?"

"Then... try." Huang *Shi* wiped the tear stains on her face. Her eyes were already crying red.

The sky outside the house darkened, but she had no sleepiness, intending to worry about how to escape this desperate predicament. She asked Guan Zongbao to go to sleep first. The silkworms of this crop were almost reaching the "Third Sleep" (*San Mian*). Guan Zongbao needed to get up in the second half of the night to replace her feeding mulberries. The two alternated to avoid breaking their bodies from exhaustion.

Raising silkworms is a very hard thing. After silkworms hatch into silkworm ants and "pass the nest," they need to be fed and cleared of feces daily. Silkworm raisers generally feed silkworms once every three hours, eight times a day working day and night, sleeping and waking with silkworms. Feeding once each at early morning, noon (*Wu*), *Shen* (3-5 PM), *You* (5-7 PM), first watch, second watch, after second watch, beginning of fourth watch, and fifth watch. When feeding mulberry, wait for silkworms to all wake up before putting down mulberry leaves, to prevent different development leading to uneven silkworm quality. Day and night are the same. As silkworms grow larger, nests must be divided. Feces must be cleared twice a day, once in the early morning and once at *Shen*. Roll the silkworms with hands, move to another nest, remove silkworm feces, and use it to fertilize mulberry dikes and feed pond fish.

The most serious threat is silkworm disease. During "Silkworm Sleep," raisers must distinguish silkworm colors at all times. During the first and second sleep, mulberry leaf consumption is less. If the raiser sees incomplete molting, commonly known as stricture tail (*Le Wei*), or sees condition like sand worm feet, green body feet, sand skin feet during the first sleep, they must be discarded immediately to prevent loss of mulberry leaves and labor without merit. There is a disease commonly known as "Black Head," often occurring after silkworm "Great Sleep" (*Da Mian*) and before cocooning. At this time, it is too late to remedy. Raisers can only see if they can cocoon. Even if cocooned, it is very thin. If severe, unable to cocoon, or even rotting and emitting stench, they must be discarded directly to prevent contagion. There is also a silkworm disease commonly known as "Red Bone," which causes the whole body of the silkworm to stiffen and die suddenly immediately, but fortunately, it does not spread on a large scale. The most headache-inducing is a baffling silkworm disease, with no warning in the early stage, attacking only when it is time to harvest, catching people off guard.

**(End of Chapter)**
